# The   Evaluation   of   Human   Rights:  An  Overview   in   Historical   Perspective

## Table of content
 
* 1     ABSTRACT  
* 2     INTRODUCTION  
* 2.1  CONCEPT   OF   HUMAN   RIGHTS  
* 2.2  TYPES   OF   HUMAN   RIGHTS  
* 2.3  FEATURE   OF   HUMAN   RIGHTS  
* 2.4  DIFFERENCES   BETWEEN   HUMAN   RIGHTS   
*  3     HISTORICAL    PERSPECTIVE  
* 3.1     THE   ANCIENT   AGE  
* 3.2     THE   MEDIEVAL   AGE  
* 3.3      THE   MODERN   AGE  
* 4      STRENGTHENING   HUMAN   RIGHTS   
* 5  CONCLUSION  

## Abstract: 
*A  new   world   order   came   into   being   out  of   the   ashes   of   World   War   II   in   1945, putting   respect   for   human   rights   alongside   peace,   security,   and   development as   the   primary   objectives   of   the   United   Nations.   The   Universal   Declaration   of Human   Rights   proclaimed   in   1948,   provided   a   framework   for   a   series   of international   human   rights   conventions.   Presently   almost   all   the 
national   legislations   influenced   by   these   conventions.   It   is   universally 
recognized   that   Human   Rights   and   Fundamental   Freedoms   are   the 
birthrights   of   all   Human   beings.   The   main   objective   of   the   study   is   to 
investigate   the   historical   development   of   Human   Rights   and   analyze 
philosophical   thinking.   For   conducting   this   study   data   was   collected   from 
several   articles,   books,   and   related   documents   regarding   Human   Rights   as   a 
qualitative   paper.*
### 1. Introduction 
As the  Second World War appeared to be drawing   to a close, world leaders started planning  for banishing war and resorting   to   sustainable   peace. The United Nations Charter envisaged   the  promotion of universal respect  for,  and   observance of, human rights and fundamental   freedoms  for all without distinction as to   race, sex, language or religion as one of   the   means for that end. On the 10th December   1948,  the U.N. General Assembly adopted and   proclaimed the Universal Declaration of   Human   Rights. The Declaration for the first time   generated a common standard of rights for   all peoples   and   all   nations   without   any   discrimination   [1].   Human   Rights   are   mostly   inherent and   natural   rights,   the   execution,   preservation,   or   enjoyment   of   Human   Rights   is   simply 
impossible.   It   is   also   true   that   without   ensuring   Human   Rights   the   development   of   life   is quite   impossible.   In   this   regard,   every   nation   follows   the   international   instrument   of   Human Rights. In   this   sense,   in   2009   a   National   Human   Rights   Commission   is   established   in 
Bangladesh   to   protect   the   human   rights   of   its   citizens.
#### 1.1 Concepts   of   Human   Rights 
Rights   are   something   people   demand   or   desire   for   their   self-Development.   Rights   are those   basic   standards   without   which   people   cannot   live   in   dignity.   Hobhouse   says,   “Rights are   what   we   may   expect   from   others,   and   others from   us   and   all   genuine   tights   are conditions of social welfare”. Thomas   Paine, a French   first   used   the   term   ‘Human Rights’   While   translating   the   French   Declaration   of   Rights   of   Man   and   the   Citizen   from French   to   English,   But   unfortunately   he   was   detained. Human Rights are those basic 
standards   without   which   people   cannot   live   in   dignity.   The   basic   rights   and   freedoms, to   which   all   humans   are   entitled,   often   held   to   include   the6   Md.   Kamruzzaman   and   Shashi Kanto   Das:   The   Evaluation   of   Human   Rights:   An   Overview   in   Historical   Perspective   right 
to   life   and   liberty,   freedom   of   thought   and   expression, and   equality   before   the   law.   To   violate   someone’s   human   right   is   to   treat   that   person   as though   she   or   he   were   not   a   human   being.   These   are   basically   few   natural   rights   which cannot   be   denied,   but   at   the   same   time   not   guaranteed   by   Statutory   Law.   It   is   the obligation   of   the   state   to   promote   and   protect   human   rights   [2].   The   New   Lexicon Webster’s   Dictionary   of   the   English   language   describes   the   “Human   Rights”   expression   as under,   “The   right   to   be   free   from   Governmental   violations   of   the integrity   of   the   persons”.“Human Rights means Right to life, Right to liberty, Right to Equality, and Right to the dignity   of a person guaranteed by the   constitution of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh and such other Human Rights documents and ratified  by the People’s Republic of Bangladesh   and enforceable by the existing laws 
of the Bangladesh”(National Human Rights Commission Act,2009 Section-2(f).
#### 1.2 Types   of   Human   Rights 
Human   Rights   are   integrated,   broad,   and   covered   a   wide   range   of   rights.   On   the   basis   of the   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights,   1948   there   are   the   following   classification; 
* A. Civil   rights   &   Political   rights ;   Known   as   Fundamental   rights,   Guaranteed   by   Article (27-44)   part   (III)   of   Bangladesh   Constitution. 
* B. Economic   rights   &   Social   and   Cultural   Rights; Bangladesh   constitution,   part   (II)   Article (8-25)   not   guaranteed. 
* C. Solidarity   rights, that   is 
  * I)   right   to   development  
  * II)   right   to   self-determination. 
The   total   numbers   of   Human   Rights   are   27;   from   which   25   is   described   by   the   Universal Declaration   of   Human   Rights,   1948,   and   the   rest   two   are   described   by   the   Declaration   on the   Granting   of   Independence   to   Colonial   Countries   and   Peoples(DGICCP)   and Declaration   on   the   Right   to Development   (DRD)   [3]. 
#### 1.3. Salient   Features   of   Human   Rights 
The evident characteristics of Human Rights make them different from other rights.The unique   features are as follows 
* I. Inherent:   
The most outstanding characteristics of   Human Rights are that it is inherent 
and natural.None acquires it by any   special quality of reputation. It is   not the charity of any person or any social system.Every man is by   born entitled to these rights. 
* II. Not Exchangeable: 
Human Rights cannot be handed over,exchanged, or transferred. It is   excessive to all. It could neither be given away nor could be stolen or taken away by snatching. 
* III. Universality : Universality stands   out as the basic value of human rights. Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration. 
* IV. Equality:   
Human Rights refer to equal enjoyment of   opportunities and resources to all.Justice, rule of law, and indiscrimination are the philosophy of HumanRights. 
* V. Feasibility:   
The important characteristics of Human Rights are its feasibility or effectiveness.That is Human Rights should never be  viewed  as a   hypothetical or abstract concept. It isshaped   by social values, norms,culture,and institutions 3. 
#### 1.4.   Differences   Between   Human   Rights   and   Fundamental   Rights 

##### 1.4.1.   Definitional   Issues   Human   Rights: 
Human Rights are those basic standards 
without which people cannot live in  dignity.   Human Rights are inherent to each individual. 
Fundamental Rights:Fundamental Rights are   those rights or Human Rights which are guaranteed by the constitution.All Fundamental Rights are   Human Rights but all Human Rights are not   fundamental rights. Human Rights are   concerned  with all human beings of the world but fundamental rights are related between one state and its citizens. 
##### 1.4.2.   Number   of   Human   Rights   and   Fundamental   Rights 
According   to   the   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights,   1948   the   number   of   Human Rights   is   25   (Civil   and   Political   Rights-19   and   Economic,   Social   and   Cultural   Rights-06). There   are   also   another   two   kinds   of   Human   Rights   Known   as   Solidarity   rights.   According to   DGICCP,   one   right   is   to   Self-determination   and   according   to   DRD,   another   right   is   to Self-development.   So   the   total   numbers   of   Human   Rights   are   27.   On   the   other   hand,   there are   no   constant   numbers   of   fundamental   rights.   It   varies   from   country   to   country.   It depends   on   the   Political   and   economic   conditions   of   any   state.   The   numbers   of Fundamental   rights   in   Bangladesh   are   18. 
##### 1.4.3.   Historical   Perspective 
The   concept   of   Human   Rights   is   as   old   as   the   ancient   doctrine   of   natural   rights.   It   is ultimately   created   after   the   creation   of   human   beings.   Thus   Human   Rights   are   developed 
day   by   day   by   the   various   declaration   and   treaties.   On   the   other   side,   fundamental   rights 
are   derived   from   Human   Rights   and   recognized   by   the   state’s   own   constitution.   The   state rganization   is   a   precondition   for   ensuring   fundamental  rights   but   not   essential   for   Human 
Rights. 
##### 1.4.4.   Universality 
Human   Rights   are   the   same   for   all   human   beings   regardless   of   race,   sex,   and   religion,   or political   or   national   origin.   Human   Rights   are   Universal.   But   fundamental   rights   are applicable   only   for   the   own   population   of   any   state.   In   Bangladesh,   12   rights   are applicable   only   for   Bangladeshi   citizens,   and   the   rest   six   are   applicable   or   all   either 
citizens   or   foreigners   stay   in   Bangladesh. 
##### 1.4.5.   Protection   and   Promotion 
Human   Rights   are   protected   and   Promoted   by   International   Law   but   fundamental   rights are   protected   promoted   by   the   States 
The   idea   of   human   rights   law   at   the   core   of   the   American   and   French   revolutions   which inaugurated   an   era   of   democratic   revolution   throughout   the   nineteenth   century   paving   the way   for   the   advent   of   universal   suffrage.   The   world   wars   of   the   twentieth   century   led   to   the Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights.   The   post-war   era   saw   human   rights   movements for   special   interest   groups   such   as   feminism   and   the   civil   rights   of   African-Americans.   The human   rights   of   members   of   the   Soviet   bloc   emerged   in   the 1970s   along   with   workers'   rights   in   the   West. 
### 2.   Historical   Perspective 
 Human   Rights   apparently   seem   to   be   a   concept   of   the   modern   age.   But   the   origin   of   the 
 concept   takes   us   to   the   remote   past.   So   it   can   be   stated   that   Human   Rights   have   acquired 
 the   sophisticated   legal   and   well-arranged   present   from   by   wandering   a   long   way.   The 
 chronological   history   of   Human   7   Rights   can   be   looked   at   from   three   phases   according   to 
 development   and   recognition.   These   are 
 * The   Ancient   Age 
 * II)The   Medieval   Age 
 * III)The   Modern   Age 
 
#### 2.1.   The   Ancient   Age 
The   ancient   age   expanded   approximately   from   500   years   before   A.D.   to   in   4   th   Century.Slavery   was   viewed   as   a   legal   custom   in   the   social   system   during   that   time.   During   this period   a   slave   was   considered   as   ‘animal   tool’s   or   ‘living   possession’   and   was   deprived   of minimum   basic   needs.   The   slave   had   no   political   or   economical   freedom;   they   were absolutely   used   as   an   instrument   of   production   without   enjoyment   of   any   kinds   of   rights.   In 
this   context,   the   philosophy   devoted   to   humanism   and   equality   came   to   the   surface   of human   thought   in   Greece   and   got   momentum.   The   ancient   age   can   be   stigmatized   as   the ‘blooming   stage;   of   concern   and   thought   related   to   Human   Rights   [3]. 
The   earliest   legal   code   known   as   (c.   2350   BC)   Urukagina   of   Lagash,   have   addressed   the concept   of   rights.   The   oldest   legal   codex   extant   today   is   the   Neo-Sumerian   Code   of   Ur-Nammu   (2050   BC).   Several   other   sets   of   laws   were   also   issued   in   Mesopotamia,   including the   Code   of   Hammurabi   (1780   BC),   one   of   the   most   famous   examples   of   this   type   of document. 
It   shows   rules,   and   punishments   if   those   rules   are   broken,   on   a   variety   of   matters, including   women's   rights,   men's   rights,   children's   rights   and   slave   rights. Some   historians   suggest   that   the   Achaemenid   Persian   Empire   of   ancient   Iran   established 
unprecedented   principles   of   human   rights   in   the   6th   century   BC   under   Cyrus   the   Great. After   his   conquest   of   Babylon   in   539   BC,   the   king   issued   the Cyrus   cylinder,   discovered   in   1879   and   seen   by   some   today   as   the   first   human   rights document.   The   cylinder   has   been   linked   by   some   commentators   to   the   decrees   of   Cyrus 
recorded   in   the   Books   of   Chronicles,   Nehemiah,   and   Ezra,   which   state   that   Cyrus   allowed (at   least   some   of)   the   Jews   to   return   to   their   homeland   from   their   "Babylonian   Captivity. The   German   historian   Josef   Wiesehöfer   argues   that   the   image   of   "Cyrus   as   a   champion   of the   UN   human   rights   policy   ...   is   just   as   much   a   phantom   as   the   humane   and   enlightened Shah   of   Persia.",   while   historian   Elton   L.   Daniel   has   describedsuch   an   interpretation   as   "rather   anachronistic"   and   tendentious.   The   cylinder   now   lies   in the   British   Museum,   and   a   replica   is   kept   at   the   United   Nations   Headquarters. 
### 2.2.   The   Medieval   Age 
Moderately   the   period   from   5   th   to   the   15   th   century   is   estimated   as   medieval   age.   Middle age   is   the   dark,   barren   period   of   Human   Rights.   Christianity   extended   great influence   both   positively   and   negatively   on   the   new   socio-   economic   and   political   structure of   that   time.   The   concept   of   “All   men   are   equal   to   God”,   “Everyone   should   be   obedient towards   the   legal   Government”   etc.   were   founded   by   Christianity   which   successfully brought   equality.   Barkey   Says,   “Christianity   was   the   only   agent   of   unity   and community”   [7]. 
#### 2.2.1.   Magna   Carta 
The   most   important   step   of   middle   age   to   promote   Human   Rights   was   taken   by   adopting ‘Magna   Carta’.   It   was   the   most   famous   written   document   of   Human   Rights   in   the   middle age.   It   was   a   constitutional   charter   adopted   by   the   King   John   in1215   A.D.   and   was reaffirmed   by   King   Edward   III.   Magna   Carta   required   the   King   to   renounce   certain   rights, respect   certain   legal   procedures   and   accept   that   the   will   of   the   King   could   be   bound   by   the law   [8].   There   are   63   Articles   including   Preamble,   out   of   which   Article   39   and   40   is   very important.   
* Article   39: 
No   freeman   shall   be   arrested   or   imprisoned   or   outlawed   or   exiled   or   in   any   way harmed.   Nor   will   we   proceed   against   him,   or   send   others   to   do   so,   expect   according   to   the 
lawful   sentence   of   his   peers   or   according   to   the   Common   Law. 
* Article   40: 
To   none   will   we   sell,   to   none   will   we   refuse   of   delay   right   or   justice. 
#### 2.2.2.   Influence   on   Magna   Carta 
Magna   Carta   was   the   first   written   document   by   which   liberty   of   people   were   guaranteed.   It influenced   many   common   law   and   other   documents,   such   as   the   United   States Constitution   and   Bill   of   Rights,   and   is   considered   one   of   the   most   important   legal documents   in   the   history   of   democracy.   Almost   every   fundamental   principles   of   the English   Constitution   could   be   test   to   Magna   Carta.   According   to   Coke,   “It   was   declaratory 
of   the   principal   ground   of   the   fundamental   laws   of   England.”   and   Hallam   characterized   it as   the   ‘key   stone   of   English   liberty’   [2]. 
### 2.3.   The   Modern   Age 
At   the   beginning   stage   of   modern   age,   the   practice   of   Human   Rights   had   been   developed in   England.   After   ‘Magna   Carta’   an   important   step   was   taken   by   the   parliament   through adopting ‘Petition   of   Right’ [3]. 
#### 2.3.1.   Petition   of   Right 
The   Petition   of   Right   is   a   major   English   constitutional   document   that   sets   out   specific liberties   of   the   subject   that   the   king   is   prohibited   from   infringing.   Passed   on   7   June   1628, the   Petition   contains   restrictions   on   non-Parliamentary   taxation,   forced   billeting   of   soldiers, imprisonment   without   cause,   and   restricts   the   use   of   martial   law.   Following   disputes 
between   Parliament   and   King   Charles   I   over   the   execution   of   the   Thirty   Years'   War, Parliament   refused   to   grant   subsidies   to   support   the   war   effort,   leading   to   Charles gathering   "forced   loans"   without   Parliamentary   approval   and   arbitrarily   imprisoning   those 
who   refused   to   pay.   Moreover,   the   war   footing   of   the   nation   led   to   the   forced   billeting   of 
soldiers   within   the   homes   of   private   citizens,   and   the   declaration   of   martial   law   over   large swathes   of   the   country.   There   are   as   many   as   4   Articles   in   Petition   of   Right   as   follows: 
* Article   1: 
No   Person   should   be   required   to   pay   a   tax   or   benevolent   without   parliament 
approval. 
* Article   2: 
No   Person   should   be   imprisoned   without   cause   being   shown   with   the   Royal command   not   to   be   sufficient   cause. 
* Article   3: 
No   troops   should   be   quarter   in   private   home   without   consent   of   and 
compensation   to   their   owner. 
* Article   4: 
The   Crown   should   issue   no   commission   Proceeding   Martial   Law. 
 
#### 2.3.2.   Bill   of   Rights 
The   Bill   of   Rights   was   passed   by   Parliament   on   16   December   1689.   It   was   a   restatement in   statutory   form   of   the   Declaration   of   Right   presented   by   the   Convention   Parliament   to William   and   Mary   in   March   1689,   inviting   them   to   become   joint   sovereigns   of   England. It lays   down   limits   on   the   powers   of   sovereign   and   sets   out   the   rights   of   Parliament   and 
rules   for   freedom   of   speech   in   Parliament,   the   requirement   to   regular   elections   to Parliament   and   the   right   to   petition   the   monarch   without   fear   of   retribution. It reestablished   the   liberty   of   Protestants   to   have   arms   for   their   defense   within   the   rule   of 
law,   and   condemned   James   II   of   England   for   "causing   several   good   subjects   being Protestants   to   be   disarmed   at   the   same   time   when   papists   were   both   armed   and employed   contrary   to   law". These   ideas   about   rights   reflected   those   of   the   political   thinker   John   Locke   and   they 
quickly   became   popular   in   England.   It   also   sets   out—or,   in   the   view   of   its   drafters, restates—certain   constitutional   requirements   of   the   Crown   to   seek   the   consent   of   the 
people,   as   represented   in   Parliament. 
The   Bill   of   Rights   laid   out   certain   basic   rights   for   all   Englishmen.   These   rights   continue   to apply   today,   not   only   in   England   and   Wales,   but   in   each   of   the   jurisdictions   of   the 
Commonwealth   realms   as   well.   The   Act   set   out   that   there   should   be: 
 
* No   royal   interference   with   the   law.   Though   the   sovereign   remains   the   fount   of 
 justice,   he   or   she   cannot   unilaterally   establish   new   courts   or   act   as   a   judge. 
* No   taxation   by   Royal   Prerogative.   The   agreement   of   parliament   became   necessary for   the   implementation   of   any   new   taxes. 
* Only   civil   courts,   not   Church   courts,   are   legal. 
* Freedom   to   petition   the   monarch   without   fear   of   retribution 
* No   standing   army   may   be   maintained   during   a   time   of   peace   without   the   consent   of 
parliament. 
* No   royal   interference   in   the   freedom   of   the   people   to   have   arms   for   their   own defense   as   suitable   to   their   class   and   as   allowed   by   law. 
* No   royal   interference   in   the   election   of   members   of   parliament. 
* The   freedom   of   speech   and   debates   or   proceedings   in   Parliament   ought   not   to   be impeached   or   questioned   in   any   court   or   place   out   of   Parliament. 
* "Grants   and   promises   of   fines   or   forfeitures"   before   conviction   are   void. 
* No   excessive   bail   or   "cruel   and   unusual"   punishments   may   be   imposed. 
Certain   acts   of   James   II   were   also   specifically   named   and   declared   illegal   by   the   Bill    of Rights,   while   James'   flight   from   England   in   the   wake   of   the   Glorious   Revolution   was   also declared   to   be   an   abdication   of   the   throne. Two   major   revolutions   occurred   during   the   18th   century   in   the   United   States   (1776)   and   in France   (1789). The   Virginia   Declaration   of   Rights   of   1776   sets   up   a   number   of 
fundamental   rights   and   freedoms.   The   later   United   States   Declaration   of   Independence includes   concepts   of   natural   rights   and   famously   states   "that   all   men   are   created   equal, that   they   are   endowed   by   their   Creator   with   certain   unalienable   rights   that   among   these 
are   life,   liberty   and   the   pursuit   of   happiness."   Similarly,   the   French   Declaration   of   the Rights   of   Man   and   Citizen   defines   a   set   of   individual   and   collective   rights   of   the   people. 
These   are,   in   the   document,   held   to   be   universal   -   not   only   to   French   citizens   but   to   all men   without   exception. 
#### 2.3.3.   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights,1948 
The   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights   (UDHR)   is   a   non-binding   declaration   adopted by   the   United   Nations   General   Assembly   in   1948,   partly   in   response   to   the 
barbarism   of   World   War   II.   The   UDHR   urges   member   nations   to   promote   a   number   of human,   civil,   economic   and   social   rights,   asserting   these   rights   are   part   of   the   "foundation of   freedom,   justice   and   peace   in   the   world". The   UDHR   was   framed   by   members   of   the   Human   Rights   Commission,   with   Eleanor Roosevelt   as   Chair,   who   began   to   discuss   an   International   Bill   of   Rights   in   1947.   The members   of   the   Commission   did   not   immediately   agree   on   the   form   of   such   a   bill   of   rights, and   whether,   or   how,   it   should   be   enforced.   The   Commission   proceeded   to   frame   the  UDHR   and   accompanying   treaties,   but   the   UDHR   quickly   became   the   priority.   Canadian law   professor   John   Humphrey   and   French   lawyer   Rene   Cassin   were   responsible   for   much of   the   cross-national   research   and   the structure   of   the   document   respectively,   where   the articles   of   the   declaration   were   interpretative   of   the   general   principle   of   the   preamble.   The document   was   structured   by   Cassin   to   include   the   basic   principles   of   dignity,   liberty, equality   and   brotherhood   in   the   first   two   articles,   followed   successively   by   rights   pertaining to   individuals;   rights   of   individuals   in   relation   to   each   other   and   to   groups;   spiritual,   public 
and   political   rights;   and   economic,   social   and   cultural   rights.   The   final   three   articles   place,according   to   Cassin,   rights   in   the   context   of   limits,   duties   and   the   social   and   political   order in   which   they   are   to   be   realized.   Humphrey   and   Cassin   intended   the   rights   in   the   UDHR   to be   legally   enforceable   through   some   means,   as   is   reflected   in   the   third   clause   of   the preamble   [9]. 
Some   of   the   UDHR   was   researched   and   written   by   a   committee   of   international   experts on   human   rights,   including   representatives   from   all   continents   and   all   major   religions,   and drawing   on   consultation   with   leaders   such   as   Mahatma   Gandhi.   The   inclusion   of   both   civil and   political   rights   and   economic,   social   and cultural   rights   was   predicated on   the   assumption   that   basic   human   rights   are   indivisible   and   that   the   different   types   of rights   listed   are   inextricably   linked. Though   this   principle   was   not   opposed   by   any   member   states   at   the   time   of   adoption   (the declaration   was   adopted   unanimously,   with   the   abstention   of   the   Soviet   bloc, Apartheid   South   Africa   and   Saudi   Arabia),   this   principle   was   later   subject   to   significant challenges   [10].Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights   consists   of   a   preamble   and   30   Articles   setting   forth the   basic   human   rights   without   any   discrimination.   The   Declaration   contained general   definitions   of   two   types   of   rights   mentioned   below: 
1.   Civil   and   Political   Rights   stated   in   Article   3   to   21   such   as   right   to   life,   right   to   freedom, 
right   to   nationality,   right   to   own   property,   right   to   freedom   of   opinion   and   expression, freedom   of   thought   ,conscience   and   religion,   bright   to   take   part   in   the   government   etc. 
2.   Economic   Social   and   Cultural   rights   are   recognized   in   article   22   to   28.   Some   of   those are   right   to   social   security,   right   to   education,   right   to   participate,   in   the   cultural   life   of the   community,   right   to   enjoy   the   arts   and   to   share   in   scientific   advancement   and   its benefits   etc. It   is   remarkable   that   UDHR   is   neither   a   convention,   nor   a   treaty   and   is   merely   a declaration   without   any   binding   force.   In   spite   of   this   after   1948,   this   declaration   extended strong   influence   in   adopting   various   international   or   regional conventions,   covenants,   promulgating   constitution   and   laws.   Thus   the   International   Bill   of 
human   rights   represents   a   milestone   in   the   history   of   human   rights,   a   veritable   Magna Carta   marking   mankind’s   arrival   at   a   vitally   important   phase,   the   conscious   acquisition   of Human   dignity   [3].
#### 2.3.4.   19th   Century   to   World   War   I 
Philosophers   such   as   Thomas   Paine,   John   Stuart   Mill   and   G.W.F.   Hegel   expanded   on   the theme   of   universality   during   the   18th   and   19th   centuries.   In   1831   William   Lloyd   Garrison 
wrote   in   a   newspaper   called   The   Liberator   that   he   was   trying   to   enlist   his   readers   in   "the 
great   cause   of   human   rights"   so   the   term   human   rights   probably   came   into   use   sometime between   Paine's   The   Rights   of   Man   and   Garrison's   publication   (Mayer   2000).   In   1849 a contemporary,   Henry   David   Thoreau, wrote   about   human   rights   in   his   treatise   On   the   Duty of   Civil   Disobedience   which   was   later   influential   on   human   rights   and   civil   rights   thinkers. United   States   Supreme   Court   Justice   David   Davis,   in   his   1867   opinion   for   Ex   Parte Milligan,   wrote   "By   the   protection   of   the   law,   human   rights are   secured;   withdraw   that   protection   and   they   are   at   the   mercy   of   wicked   rulers   or   the clamor   of   an   excited   people"[13]. Many   groups   and   movements   have   managed   to   achieve   profound   social   changes   over the   course   of   the   20th   century   in   the   name   of   human   rights.   In   Western   Europe   and   North America,   labor   unions   brought   about   laws   granting   workers   the   right   to   strike,   establishing minimum   work   conditions   and   forbidding   or   regulating   child   labor.   The   women's   rights movement   succeeded   in   gaining   for   many   women   the   right   to   vote.   National   liberation movements   in   many   countries   succeeded   in   driving   out   colonial   powers.   One   of   the   most 
influential   was   Mahatma   Gandhi's movement   to   free   his native   India   from   British   rule.   Movements   by   long-oppressed   racial   and   religious   minorities succeeded   in   many   parts   of   the   world,   among   them   the   civil   rights   movement,   and   more recent   diverse   identity   politics   movements,   on   behalf   of   women   and   minorities   in   the United   States. 
#### 2.3.5.   Between   World   War   I   and   World   War   II 
The   League   of   Nations   was   established   in   1919   at   the   negotiations   over   the   Treaty   of Versailles   following   the   end   of   World   War   I.   The   League's   goals   included   disarmament,preventing   war   through   collective   security,   settling   disputes   between   countries   through 
negotiation,   diplomacy   and   improving   global   welfare.   Enshrined   in   its   Charter   was   a mandate   to   promote   many   of   the   rights   which   were   later   included   in   the   Universal Declaration   of   Human   Rights.   The   League   of   Nations   had   mandates   to   support   many   of the   former   colonies   of   the   Western   European   colonial   powers   during   their   transition   from colony   to   independent   state. Established   as   an   agency   of   the   League   of   Nations,   and   now   part   of   United   Nations,   the International   Labor   Organization   also   had   a   mandate   to   promote   and   safeguard   certain   of 
the   rights   later   included   in   the   UDHR. 
#### 2.3.6.   After   World   War   II 
Rights   in   War   and   the   Geneva   Conventions   The   Geneva   Conventions   came   into   being between   1864   and   1949   as   a   result   of   efforts   by   Henry   Dunant,   the   founder   of   the 
International   Committee   of   the   Red   Cross.   The   conventions   safeguard   the   human   rights   of individuals   involved   in   conflict,   and   follow   on   from   the   1899   and   1907   Hague   Conventions, 
the   international   community's   first   attempt   to   define   laws   of   war. Despite   first   being   framed before   World   War   II,   the   conventions   were   revised   as   a   result   of   World   War   II   and readopted   by   the   international   community   in   1949. The   Geneva   Conventions   are: First   Geneva   Convention   “for   the   Amelioration   of   the Condition   of   the   Wounded   and   Sick in   Armed   Forces   in   the   Field”(first   adopted   in   1864,   last   revision   in   1949) 
Second   Geneva   Convention   “for   the   Amelioration   of   the   Condition   of   Wounded,   Sick   and Shipwrecked   Members   of   Armed   Forces   at   Sea”(first   adopted   in   1949,   successor   of   the 
1907   Hague   Convention   X)   Third   Geneva   Convention   "relative   to   the   Treatment   of Prisoners   of   War"   (first   adopted   in   1929,   last   revision   in   1949)   Fourth   Geneva   Convention “relative   to   the   Protection   of   Civilian   Persons   in   Time   of   War”(first   adopted   in  1949,   based   on   parts   of   the   1907   Hague   Convention   IV)   In   addition,   there   are   three additional   amendment   protocols   to   the   Geneva   Convention:  
* Protocol   I   (1977):   
Protocol   Additional   to   the   Geneva   Conventions   of   12   August   1949,   and 
relating   to   the   Protection   of   Victims   of   International   Armed   Conflicts.   As   of   12   January 2007   it   had   been   ratified   by   167   countries. 
* Protocol   II   (1977): 
Protocol   Additional   to   the   Geneva   Conventions   of   12   August   1949,   and 
relating   to   the   Protection   of   Victims   of   Non-International   Armed   Conflicts.   As   of   12   January 2007   it   had   been   ratified   by   163   countries. 
* Protocol III (2005) : 
Protocol   Additional   to   the   Geneva   Conventions   of   12   August   1949,   and  relating   to   the   adoption   of   an   Additional   Distinctive   Emblem.   As   of   May   20,   2008,   it   had been   ratified   by   28   countries   and   signed   but   not   yet   ratified   by   an   additional   59   countries. All   four   conventions   were   last  revised   and   ratified   in   1949,   based   on   previous   revisions and   partly   on   some   of   the   1907   Hague   Conventions.   Later   conferences   have   added 3provisions   prohibiting   certain   methods   of   warfare   and   addressing   issues   of   civil   wars. Nearly   all   200   countries   of   the world   are   "signatory"   nations,   in   that   they   have   ratified these   conventions.   The   International   Committee   of   the   Red   Cross   is   the   controlling   body of   the   Geneva   conventions. 
### 3.Strengthening   Human   Rights 
*(National   Human   Right   Commission,   Bangladesh)*

After   the   Second   World   War,   the   world   manifested   its   deep   concern   for   Human   Rights. The   United   Nations   adopted   the   Universal   Declaration   of   Human   Rights   on   December   10 of   1948.   Later   on,   the   UN   adopted   two   Covenants   on   Economic,   Social   and   Cultural Rights   and   Civil   and   Political   Rights   on   16th   December   1966.   Bangladesh   acceded   to   the Covenant   on   Civil   and   Political   Rights   on   6   September   2000   and   the   Covenant   on 
Economic,   Social   and   Cultural   Rights   on   5   October,   1998.   An   ordinance   was   promulgated in   2007   which   formally   established   the   National   Human   Rights   Commission   which   started functioning   from   December   2008   in   a   very   limited   sphere.   After   the   free   and   fair   general election   in   2008,   the   Parliament   enacted   the   National   Human   Rights   The   Honorable President,   upon   Commission   Act-2009,   superseding   the   2007Ordinance   reflecting   the Committee,   appointed   the   Chairman   and constitutional   and   international   human   rights obligation   espoused   in   the   ‘Paris   Principles’   relating   to   the   status   of   national   human   rights institutions.   The   UN   General   Assembly   in   1993   endorsed   a   set   of   minimum   criteria designed   to   ensure   the   independence,   effectiveness   and   pluralism   of   the   national   human rights   institution   in   the   name   of   the   'Paris   Principles'.   Accordingly,   based   on   the   'Paris Principles'   and   in   pursuant   to   the   NHRC Act   2009,   the   National   Human   Rights   Commission,   Bangladesh   was   established   as   an independent   and   statutory   institution. 
The   NHRC   is   an   independent   statutory   body   established   by   legislation   (NHRC   Act,   2009). Though   NHRC   is   established   only   in   December   2008,   it’s   eradicated   for   a better   and   transparent   commenced   its   de   facto   journey   from   understanding   of   Human Rights.   23   June   2010.   Some   of   the   remarkable   features   of   the   NHRC   are   its identification   of   the   thematic   areas   and   vulnerable   groups,   formation   of   theme-wise committees   to   address   issues,   establishment   of   links   among   the   different   groups   of stakeholders   etc.   Holding   of   policy   dialogue   of   the   Commission   with   the   Secretaries   of 
Bangladesh   Government   and   nomination   of   Focal   Points   in   each   relevant   ministry   in the   process   of   UPR   is   a   milestone   human   rights   arena.   This   has   not   only   Created   links between   the   Government,   NGOs   and   UN   agencies   and   the   International   Juvenile   Justice Observatory   international   community   but   also   helped   the   state   actors   to better   prepare   themselves   for   the   2nd   cycle   of   UPR.   As   an   apex   national   human   rights monitoring   body,   the   NHRC   has   been   able   to   successfully   create   awareness   and consensus   on   basic   human   rights   issues   through   a   series   of   seminars   and   workshops.Besides   these,   the   Commission   has   organized   seminars   on   Prosecuting   Crimes   against Humanity   currently   being   tried   by   the   International   Crimes   Tribunal   Bangladesh   (ICTB). Human   Rights   Awareness   and   through   a   series   of   seminars   and   Education   elaborate   the achievements   of   in   respect   of   its   most   important   mandated   goal   of   raising   awareness amongst   people   of   all   walks   of   life.   The   major   areas   of   success   include,   among   others,   a Mass   Awareness   Campaign   of   Working   Together   for   the   Promotion   of   Human   Rights, Awareness   Creation   on   Child   Rights   and   Juvenile   Justice   System,   principles,   Violence against   Women   etc   [14-20]. 
### 4.Conclusion 
The   preceding   discussion   gives   an   impression   that   natural   Human   Rights   had   to   pass   a long   way   to   obtain   the   legal   and   international   recognition.   Universal   Declaration   of   Human Rights   created   the   stream   of   worldwide   efforts   and   international   co-operations   for   assuring human   rights.   Though   Human   Rights   have   a   universal   figure,   it’s   scope   and   periphery differ   because   of   different   socio-economic   and   political   structure   of   various   countries.   In   a well   developed   social   system   of   Europe   or   America,   right   to   freedom   or   of   thought   or freedom   of   opinion   can   be   regarded   as   the   most   important   human   rights   whereas   relief from   poverty   or   ignorance   is   the   standard   of   rights   in   a   poor,   developing   country   of   the Third   world.   However,   Bangladesh   has   recognized   UDHR   and   the   components   of   basic human   rights   have   been   enshrined   in   the   constitution.   But   the   widespread   poverty, illiteracy,   malnutrition,   want   of   social   security   and   abuse   of   rights   simply   point   out   the   fact that   issues   on   human   rights   are   confined   still   in   the   holy   pages   of   the SConstitution.   The scenario   in   the   arena   of   Human   rights   in   other   developing   or   underdeveloped   countries   is more   or   less   identical   to   that   of   Bangladesh.   It   is therefore   implied   that   the   political   leaders,   thinkers,   economists,   scientists,   social   workers and   philanthropist   must   do   something   meaningful   to   ensure   human   rights   around   the globe   and   in   case   of   failure   in   this   regard   the   world   will   never be   a   happy   abode   for   human   beings. 
 
 
 
                     THANK YOU   
 